Four parts that make up a linux system
(1). The Linux kernel
(2). The GNU utilities
(3). A graphic desktop environment
(3). Application software

1. Linux kernel
	Kernel controls all the hardware and software on the computer system, allocating hardware when necessary and executing software when required.
	(1). System memory management
		virtual memory location(space in disk called swap space)
		The process of swapping out memory pages for running applications.
	
	(2). Software program management
		Control process(init process)
		(1. Start automatically on bootup(table of processes which is stored in /etc/inittabs)
		(2. Ubuntu(/etc/init.d folder, which contains scripts for starting and stopping individual applications at boot time)
	The linux operating system uses an init system that utilizes run levels. A run level can be used to direct the init process to run only certain types of processes, as defined in the /etc/inittabs file or /etc/rcX.d folders.
		RunLevel(five run level in Linux)
			A. At one, only the basic system process are started, along with one console terminal process.(single-user mode)
			B. standard init run level is 3. network is support software is launched,.
			C. rn level 5, start eh graphical X window software and allow you to log in and using the graphical desktop window.
		Linux can control the overall system functionality by controlling the init run level.
	

	(3). Hardware management
		To communicate with Devices, devices code are inserted inside the kernel code.
			(1. Driver compiled in the kernel
			(2. Driver modules added to the kernel
		The linux system identifies hardware devices as special files, called device files.
			(1. Character[handle data one character at a time]
			(2. Block[handle large blck at a time  --> hard drive]
			(3. Network[Use packets to send data and receive data --> networkcard and special loopback device]
		Linux create special file called nodes.(Unique identification)

	(4). Filesysstem management
		Linux kernel can support different types of filesystems to read and write data to and from hard drives. 
		(The Linux kernel interface with each filesystem using the Virtual File System(VFD), which provides a standard interface for the kernel to communicate with any type of filesystem.)
2. The GUN utilities
	The GNU project was mainly designed for Unix system administrators to have a Unix-like environment availiable.(A Unix system command line utilities) The core bundle of utilities supplied for linux system is called coreutils package.
	(1). The shell
		The shell is a special interactive utility that provides a way for user to start programs, manage files on the filesystem, and manage process running on the linux system(Default is the bash shell)

3.  The linux destop environment
	(1). The X window system
		(Core to presenting graphics) The X window software is a low-level program that works directly with the vedio card and monitor in the PC, which ccontrols how application represent fancy windows and graphics.
		The core X window software produces a graphical display environment,
	(2). The KDE desktop
		An open project to produce a graphic desktop similar to the Microsoft windows environment
	(3). The GNOME desktop
		GNU Network Object Model Environment (popular linux desktop environemnt)
	(4). The Unity Desktop
		Ubuntu(To provide a single desktop experience for workstations, table devices, and mobile devices.)
	The shortcoming od the graphic destop is it requires a fair amount of system resources to operate properly.

	(5). Linux distribution
		A complete linux system package is called a distribution.
		(1. Full core Linux distributions
			A core linux distribution contains a kernel, one or more graphical destop environments, and just about every Linux application that is available, precompiled for the kernel.
		(2. Specialized distributions
			A subgroup of Linux distributions which based on one of the main distributions but contain only a subset of applications that would make sense for a special area use.(Many special linux distributions are based on the Debian Linux distribution)
		(3. LiveCD test distributions
			Bootable Linux CD distribution, which makes you run the linux without installing it.






